feat: move files from personal repo to momentohq (#1)
momentohq/laravel-example: README.md

</head>
<img src="https://docs.momentohq.com/img/logo.svg" alt="logo" width="400"/>

# Momento Laravel Example
In this repo, you will see an example of how to integrate a Momento cache into your Laravel app, instead of a Redis or Memcached.
What's the benefits, you ask? You don't have to worry about Redis/Memcached nodes!
Intrigued? Keep on reading!

## Run the app via Docker

Build a Docker image for the app:

Coming soon.

## Manual PHP Setup

Need to install the following:

- [PHP](https://www.php.net/manual/en/install.macosx.packages.php)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#installation-linux-unix-macos)
- [gRPC for PHP](https://cloud.google.com/php/grpc)

Add the repository and dependency to your project's `composer.json`:

```json
{
  "repositories": [
    {
      "type": "vcs",
      "url": "https://github.com/momentohq/laravel-example"
    },
    {
      "type": "vcs",
      "url": "https://github.com/momentohq/laravel-cache"
    },
    {
      "type": "vcs",
      "url": "https://github.com/momentohq/client-sdk-php"
    }
  ],
  "require": {
    "momentohq/laravel-example": "0.1.0",
    "momentohq/laravel-cache": "0.1.2",

>     "momentohq/client-sdk-php": "0.2.0"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "momentohq/client-sdk-php": "0.2.1"
```

Reviewer: We also need to update the version requirement for `momentohq/client-sdk-php` in the `laravel-cache` repository.

}
```

Finally, add the required config to your `config/cache.php`:

```php
'default' => env('CACHE_DRIVER', 'momento'),

'stores' => [
        'momento' => [
            'driver' => 'momento',
            'cache_name' => env('MOMENTO_CACHE_NAME'),
            'default_ttl' => 60,
        ],
],
```

Run `composer update` to install the necessary prerequisites.

You need to set the following environment variables:

- `WEATHER_API_KEY` this is for weather API. Check out [OpenWeather](https://openweathermap.org/) to get an API key.
- `MOMENTO_AUTH_TOKEN`
- `MOMENTO_CACHE_NAME`

To run this application:

```bash
php artisan serve
```

## cURL commands
```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/<your-favorite-city>

Example:
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/denver
```

or

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/<your-favorite-zipcode>/<country-code-such-as-us>

Example:
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/98101/us
```

or

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/id/<your-favorite-city-id>

City id can be found here: http://bulk.openweathermap.org/sample/

Example:
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/id/833
```

## Exploring the Momento Cache Integration

> How to use Momento cache client and cache driver can be found in (WeatherController.php)[src/Controllers/WeatherController.php].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to use Momento's Laravel cache client and cache driver can be found in (WeatherController.php)[src/Controllers/WeatherController.php].
```

> Use Momento client directly, check out our PHP SDK [examples](https://github.com/momentohq/client-sdk-php/tree/main/examples)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For examples of using the Momento client directly, check out our PHP SDK [examples](https://github.com/momentohq/client-sdk-php/tree/main/examples)!
```

<head>
  <meta name="Momento Laravel cache driver example" content="Taggable Momento serverless cache driver example for Laravel">
</head>
<img src="https://docs.momentohq.com/img/logo.svg" alt="logo" width="400"/>

# Momento Laravel Example
In this repo, you will see an example of how to integrate a Momento cache into your Laravel app, instead of a Redis or Memcached.
What's the benefits, you ask? You don't have to worry about Redis/Memcached nodes!
Intrigued? Keep on reading!

## Run the app via Docker

Build a Docker image for the app:

Coming soon.

> ## cURL commands

Reviewer: Can you please move this `cURL commands` section to the bottom of the README, after the setup instructions?

Reviewer: Ah, I see this was the order you were asked to put these in. It was just confusing for me to follow the non-docker setup instructions before scrolling back up to find the cURL commands. I'm fine with deferring to the ordering Chris requested earlier.

Author: I have a question around this, so I'll create a thread to talk about it along with Packagist and integration examples in README.

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/<your-favorite-city>

Example:
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/denver
```

or

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/<your-favorite-zipcode>/<country-code-such-as-us>

Example:
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/98101/us
```

or

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/id/<your-favorite-city-id>

City id can be found here: http://bulk.openweathermap.org/sample/

Example:
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/weather/id/833
```

> ## Exploring the Momento Cache Integration

Reviewer: We should talk about whether or not we want to include this section with this sample code. If there's a Laravel driver available, I can't imagine many people would want to ignore that and use our client directly. If we do want to include this info, I'd argue it should probably go in the `laravel-cache` repository README instead of this one.

        return $json;
    }
}
```

Use Momento as a Laravel cache driver:
```php
$apiKey = env("WEATHER_API_KEY");
$url = "https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?q={$city}&appid={$apiKey}";
$result = Cache::get($city);
if (!is_null($result)) {
    return $result;
} else {
    $res = $this->httpClient->get($url);
    if ($res->getStatusCode() == 200) {
        $json = $res->getBody();
        // 10 minutes TTLc
        Cache::put($city, $json, 600);
        return $json;
    }
}
```

## Manual PHP Setup

Need to install the following:

- [PHP](https://www.php.net/manual/en/install.macosx.packages.php)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#installation-linux-unix-macos)
- [gRPC for PHP](https://cloud.google.com/php/grpc)

Add the repository and dependency to your project's `composer.json`:

```json
{
  "repositories": [
    {
      "type": "vcs",
      "url": "https://github.com/momentohq/laravel-example"
    },
    {
      "type": "vcs",
      "url": "https://github.com/momentohq/laravel-cache"
    },
    {
      "type": "vcs",
      "url": "https://github.com/momentohq/client-sdk-php"
    }

>   ],

Reviewer: Before we merge/publish this, I'd like to take a look at getting us registered with Packagist instead of continuing to use these repositories entries. Now that we know these don't work recursively, we're making a lot of work for ourselves to keep these updated. We should touch base with Chris and let him know what's up with this.

  "require": {
    "momentohq/laravel-example": "0.1.0",
    "momentohq/laravel-cache": "0.1.2",
    "momentohq/client-sdk-php": "0.2.0"
  }
}
```

Finally, add the required config to your `config/cache.php`:

```php
'default' => env('CACHE_DRIVER', 'momento'),

'stores' => [
        'momento' => [
            'driver' => 'momento',
            'cache_name' => env('MOMENTO_CACHE_NAME'),
            'default_ttl' => 60,
        ],
],
```

Run `composer update` to install the necessary prerequisites.

> If your app is not able to automatically discover packages, run `php artisan package:discover` alternatively.

Reviewer: Was this something you had to do?

Author: I thought this needs to be run to bind service providers from `laravel-cache` but this might be caused because I wasn't explicitly calling the repos that need to be referenced.
Once I added the repo property to composer.json, I was just able to do `composer update` so I'll remove this,

> You need to the following env variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to set the following environment variables:
```

Author: Wow, what was I thinking here...

> # laravel-weather-apis

Reviewer 2: same comment as on the other repo, can we use the generator for this?  Also maybe this header should say something like "Momento Laravel Example"?

## Run the app via Docker

Build a Docker image for the app:

Please ask Erika for the weather api key.
```bash

> docker build --tag weather-app --build-arg token=<YOUR_AUTH_TOKEN> --build-arg key=<WEATHER_API_KEY> .

Reviewer 2: Seeing this and thinking about what it means for a customer to run it (with the super long php grpc build time), I'm feeling motivated to have us tackle this ticket soon:

https://github.com/momentohq/dev-eco-issue-tracker/issues/131

That is not a blocker for this PR.  But if you would be interested in working on that after we get this merged in please let me know and we can bump it up the priority list a bit, and then use it to improve the user experience for this laravel app.

```

Run the Docker container with the built image above

```bash
docker run -d -p 8000:8000 weather-app
```

And try the curl commands below!

---

> ## If you're interested in setting up PHP...

Reviewer 2: Let's assume that most users will go with the docker approach, so let's organize the sections in this doc as such:

* Overview
* Docker setup instructions
* curl commands
* Exploring the Momento Cache Integration
* "Manual PHP setup"

There are 2 new sections in my proposed ordering above.  We want to think about a laravel developer who lands on this page and doesn't yet know what we are trying to offer them here.

The first one, Overview, needs to say something like "in this repo you will see an example of how to integrate a momento cache into your laravel app, instead of a redis or memcached one."  etc.  We also want to mention the benefits: you don't have to worry about managing redis/memcached nodes.

In the 4th section, "Exploring the Momento Cache Integration", you need to provide a few notes and code snippets, and links to the relevant files in your laravel app, that show a user how you integrated the momento cache and why it's interesting.  We will probably want to mention some details about both Milestone 1 and Milestone 2 from our earlier milestones doc.

Need to install the following:

- [PHP](https://www.php.net/manual/en/install.macosx.packages.php)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#installation-linux-unix-macos)
- [gRPC for PHP](https://cloud.google.com/php/grpc)

Once the above are installed, run:

```bash
composer install
```

You need to the following env variables:

> - `API_KEY` this is for weather API. Ask Erika for the key.

Reviewer: This should be changed to provide instructions for users to generate their own API key.

Reviewer 2: and the instructions for getting that key need to go up above the docker instructions.
